{{Sample freeIPA plugin for user status|version=|ticket=TODO|author=Ab}}

== Overview ==

User status plugin demonstrates how to extend both freeIPA Python framework and
freeIPA Web UI. It provides enough components and RPM spec file to maintain the
changes separate from freeIPA core.

The 'user status' is an imaginary field stored in the user object in freeIPA
that allows other users to see whether this user is active in executing some
tasks or is not available for a task execution.

== Use Cases ==
As an administrator, I want users to provide their own availability status for
processing tasks.

== Design==

=== freeIPA integration ===

freeIPA LDAP server includes various LDAP schema attributes and object clasess.
From Netscape schema, there is inetUser object class which includes
inetUserStatus attribute. Since every freeIPA user has 'inetUser' objectclass,
we re-use 'inetUserStatus' attribute for our purpose.

=== Access Control ===

We add 'inetUserStatus' attribute to the self-service access control to allow
users to change their own status.

==== Compatibility to older FreeIPA versions ====

User status integration feature is designed to be compatible with
FreeIPA 4.4.1+. The feature is delivered as a third-party plugin which
requires special support from the freeIPA core to allow addition of schema
files. The support for this is added to FreeIPA 4.4.1+.

=== Implementation ===

User status does not provide any new LDAP object but rather extends a view of
existing 'user' object to see 'inetUserStatus' attribute.

freeIPA framework plugins loaded and then locked down. During plugin load it is
possible to modify structure of any freeIPA object. This is what 'userstatus'
plugin is exploiting:

# freeIPA user object is extended to add 'inetuserstatus' StrEnum parameter
# freeIPA user object is extended to include 'inetuserstatus' attribute into the list of attributes fetched by default
# freeIPA i18n system is extended to provide default English translation for enumeration status and tooltip help for Web UI

Web UI plugin is implemented by extending specification of user's details page.
We add description of 'inetuserstatus' field to the 'Misc' section of the
details page. The description of 'inetuserstatus' utilizes i18n messages
provided by freeIPA.

Web UI plugin uses 'radio' button selector to display status.

